Today’s text reminds us
of our loving God, Jehovah,
and what he’s done for you and for me
and for all humans.
He is the Originator of marriage.
Yes, he is the Marriage-Bond Maker.
So his purpose from the very beginning,
from Adam and Eve to our day,
was that they would stick together
—that they would be “one flesh,”
bonded together—
and it would be a permanent and lasting
and happy relationship.
But here’s the problem.
On the other hand, we have Satan,
who is the original bond breaker.
He wants to break marriages and families.
He wants to get in between your marriage
and my marriage
and cause a wedge.
So, what will make or break our marriage?
Well, the key is to the extent
to which we show and prove
our love to Jehovah
and are loyal to his commandments
—including the marriage arrangement—
and our love and our loyalty to our mate.
We must also prove our hatred
for what Satan has done and is doing today
by breaking up families and marriages
and making sure that nothing will interfere
with the tight bond, or secure bond,
that we have within our marriage.
When the marriage-bond breakers,
the Pharisees,
were trying to test Jesus in his day,
do you remember what Jesus did?
Well, the first thing he did
was to go back and quote
what Jehovah said about Adam and Eve.
So if you go in your Bible, let’s go
to Matthew 19:5, 6.
And Jesus told these Pharisees:
‘Didn’t you read about this already?’
In verse 5, he goes on to say:
“For this reason
“a man will leave his father and his mother
“and [he] will stick to his wife,
and the two will [become] one flesh.”
So he quoted exactly what Jehovah said.
But then he went
a little bit further in verse 6.
He says: “So that they are no longer two,
but one flesh.
“Therefore, what God has yoked together,
let no man put apart.”
It’s interesting that our study notes help us
to appreciate what “stick to” means.
Literally, it means “to glue;
to join (bind) closely together;
to cling to.”
So when it comes to a union
of a husband and wife,
they need to be glued together.
What about the term “one flesh”?
That could also mean
“one body” or “one person.”
It describes the closest bond
between a husband and wife
—inseparable companions.
It says in the study note
that “such a union cannot be broken up
without damage to the partners bound by it.”
So something that’s supposed to be
permanently glued,
when you try to tear it apart,
there will be problems.
People often say that when
a newly married couple gets married,
they “tied the knot.”
I think we’ve all heard that.
But unfortunately,
some couples or many couples
go from being stuck on their partner
—being attracted to them because of maybe
looks or because of things in common—
to actually being stuck with them.
Big difference.
They quickly want to untie the knot
—separate the bond and become unglued.
That’s how many in the world are.
But that’s not you,
and that’s not Jehovah’s people in general.
Millions are enjoying
a happy, successful marriage.
Well, what are these marriages missing?
Why are they becoming unglued?
Well, they don’t have the right kind of glue.
Well, what is the glue
that will bond your marriage
and all marriages around the world?
What do we need?
Notice what Paul tells us at Colossians 3:14
is the secret to success,
the glue, that bonds us together.
At Colossians 3:14,
he says: “Love [love] . . . is
a perfect bond of union.”
That’s the glue that is missing
in most marriages.
It’s not a romantic type of love
but the attachment that will not let go
—that will continue to be bonded
not only to the couple
but to Jehovah.
As we know, if we’re trying
to glue something together
with wood glue or plastics
or some kind of adhesive,
there are many different types of components,
or ingredients, within glue
that give it maximum holding power,
or strength.
What are the bonding ingredients,
or materials, found in love?
If you’re still in Colossians chapter 3,
Paul lists many bond makers
as well as bond breakers.
Let’s go through the list of bond breakers
so that we know what to avoid.
There in Colossians chapter 3,
notice verse 5.
The bond breakers are
“sexual immorality, uncleanness,
uncontrolled sexual passion,
hurtful desire, and greediness.”
Total selfishness.
We see this in most marriages today.
Verse 8 goes on to say
“wrath, anger, badness,
abusive speech, and obscene talk.”
In verse 9, it’s “[lying].”
Well, these are things
that will tear our marriage apart.
It will not keep it together.
So we know this.
But we need to ask ourselves,
‘If I know this,
‘why would I want to bring into my marriage
anything that would tear it apart
‘—inappropriate material,
‘entertainment, pornography?
‘Why would I form an attachment,
an emotional attachment,
with someone who is not my mate
or flirt with them?’
It would break the marriage bond.
‘Why would I speak in such a harsh,
sarcastic, critical way
to my best friend, to my marriage mate?’
Before using glue
and trying to put something together,
both surfaces need to be clean
—that is, in a physical way
but also with the marriage itself.
We need to make sure
that everything is removed
that would prevent permanent bonding.
So we need to have a clean conscience
and be clean with what we think
and what we see and what we do.
So, what are the bond makers
that will help us,
that will help love
to be part of our marriage?
What are the ingredients?
Notice Colossians 3:12;
it says what we are to put on
after we strip off the old things:
“Clothe [ourselves]
with the tender affections of compassion,
kindness, humility, mildness, and patience.”
These are keys to our success.
And in verse 13, we should
“continue putting up with one another
and forgiving one another freely.”
So these will lead to a happy family life.
We all want to be happier than we are now.
It’s been said that the first to apologize
is the bravest,
the first to forgive is the strongest,
and the first to forget is the happiest.
So that’s the key to success as well.
And there are many fine examples in the Bible
and modern-day examples
that we can try to imitate.
One of the couples that comes to my mind
from the Bible
is Aquila and Priscilla.
And what do we know about them?
Amazingly, they were always together.
One was never mentioned without the other.
In theocratic activities
and their social life, they were together.
And they were running
the race for life together.
And we appreciate
how they were bonded together.
It made them a success.
We want to imitate that
and all the modern-day examples
that help us to appreciate
that we want to continue to stick together.
We’re all running in the race for life;
that’s true.
But if we’re married,
we’re not running alone.
We have our partner,
and we need to run with them.
It’s sort of like running
in a three-legged race.
What is a three-legged race?
Well, it’s when two people
are joined together at the ankle,
and they run to the finish line.
Here we have Caleb and Sophia’s parents
helping to demonstrate this for us.
They’re tied together.
But how do we know
that their marriage will be successful?
Well, first, the partners must remain tied.
They must be bound together—permanent.
They need to cling tightly to their partner
—support them and stabilize them
if they were to stumble or fall.
They need close communication
to start off on the right foot
and to continue to run in the same direction
toward the same goal.
And it’s vital that they run together,
move as one body
—“one flesh,” not two—
in harmony with synchronized steps,
and run at the same pace, at the same speed.
And they will be successful.
Likewise, when it comes to your marriage
and my marriage,
we need partners who are strong,
who will support us, who will stabilize us.
Work together to achieve goals
that will make Jehovah happy
and in turn make us happy.
Communication is the key to our success.
We can reach the finish line together
with this bonding
and with Jehovah in the marriage.
But what if our partner were to fall
or feel down?
Ecclesiastes 4:10 says:
“For if one of them falls,
the other can help his partner up.”
So if our partner is stressed out,
anxious, emotionally spent, feeling down,
we could pick them up
by giving them our full attention.
Yes, we’re busier than ever
with our work assignments,
we’re trying to exercise, and we’re trying
to be with all of our friends,
but that cannot overshadow
the communication that is needed
with our best friend
—our running mate—
our wife or our husband.
So we need to put the work away,
put down our device,
and give undivided attention to our partner.
And each day, we want to communicate
through prayer.
Talk to Jehovah, the three of you,
and make Jehovah part of that marriage.
And that’s what Ecclesiastes 4:12 says:
“A threefold cord
cannot quickly be torn apart.”
So, just love between a man and a woman
is not enough.
We need Jehovah to make it
the strongest and happiest possible.
So as you keep Jehovah
as a central strand in your marriage,
you will be married at heart.
You will stick together
with the right kind of glue.
Yes, love is the “perfect bond of union”
that will never fail.